---
layout: post
title: "Importing Enron Mail Dataset To MongoDB"
thumb: "enrona_1"
---

Enron dataset is commonly used dataset by scientific community and researchers as a  test or training data for various NLP tasks.
In this article, we will load this dataset into MongoDB for faster parsing.

## Overview

According to [wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enron_Corpus) The Enron Corpus consists of over `600,000` emails generated by `158` employees Enron Corp.
Mails are leading up to the company's collapse in `December 2001` and extracted by Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) during historical investigation.

The general aim of the project is to reveal the technological interpretations and to form an idea about the technological background of the companies at the relevant time.

NLP applications can vary according to purpose and use. Its important to note that usage of MongoDB here is a design choice we are making. It is not an only option here but we use it to speed up the process and have a easy accessible version of data. 

## 1. Getting The Dataset 

Its possible to find different versions of Enron dataset on the internet. 

The official one `May 7, 2015 version` of dataset is accessible form [here](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~enron/).

The file `enron_mail_20150507.tar.gz` tarred and gzipped and it is `422MB` in size.
When we open the compressed file, we encounter a folder named `maildir` with a size of `1.4 GB`.
There are `150` folders in total under this folder. It consists of the abbreviations of the names of the employees. For example like `benson-r` or `davis-d`.
Under these folders, we see folders such as `to_do`, `tasks`, `sent_items_`, `inbox` and `deleted_items`. The names of the folders can vary.
For example, like `canada` or `family`.

### Kaggle Version

We wont work with this version but its good to see the original.
We can use this version in [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/wcukierski/enron-email-dataset) which is used in this article before.


As we can see it is only partially parsed as messages and folder. 

We will do extra parsing (using email module of python) and upload the result to kaggle. 

## 2. Importing CSV File To MongoDB

Instead of editing the `CSV file` with `Python` directly or using a `pandas dataframe`, we can use a database system like `MongoDB`.
For this purpose I installed mongodb and import rows of csv file.

First we create `Enron` database and `enrondatabase` collection through `MongoDBCompass` interface.

After we create the collection I import email data from a CSV file into a MongoDB database by using a Python script.


<script src="https://gist.github.com/csariyildiz/cc6824e6f4ef168808cc685e4bff4c75.js"></script>

When I run the code on my Jupyter notebook instance I can see the inserts from the interface.
It takes 3-4 minutes to get all of it by using the code above.

## 3. Parsing Email Data & Editing Fields

* I use Python's email module to parse headers.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/csariyildiz/05dd402d6deb28d5caf1ae3595794547.js"></script>

### Editing Fields

* We dont need unparsed "message" field since we have the "body" field. I delete it using this MongoDB query.

<code>db.enronmails.updateMany({},{$unset: {message:""}})</code>

* I change the name of filename field to directory. 

<code>db.enronmails.updateMany({},{$rename: {"file":"directory"}})</code>

## 4. Exporting A Parsed Data

Now I export to new parsed data to use it as a resource for later work. Also take it as a backup.
I also sharing it in Kaggle to speed up for anyone working on dataset.

## Notes

There are some lessons learned & future work.

* It is possible to lose some of the data during preprocessing.
* Annotation seems to be needed Annotation tools like Prodigy can be useful.
* It stands out that there can be many different approaches. I create different articles to make these a little clearer.
* It may be necessary to create a knowledge base, especially on the application side. Databases such as neo4j can be used for this purposes.
* It will be beneficial to research sample studies in academic journals.

