---
layout: post
title: "Importing Enron Mail Dataset To MongoDB"
category: main
---

Enron dataset is very commonly used by scientific community and any researcher who wants to use it.

## Summary

1. Getting The Dataset
2. Importing CSV File To MongoDB
3. Parsing Email Data & Editing Fields
4. Exporting A Parsed Data

## 1. Getting The Dataset 

There are versions of dataset. The original one bla bla.
We use this version in kaggle.
As we can see is not parsed.

And reveal technological comments and create a insigt to companies technological situation.

## 2. Importing CSV File To MongoDB

Instead of editing the CSV file with Python directly or using a pandas dataframe, we can use a database system like MongoDB.
For this purpose I installed mongodb and import rows of csv file.

* First we create "Enron" database and "enrondatabase" collection through MongoDBCompass interface.

After we create the collection I import email data from a CSV file into a MongoDB database by using a Python script.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/csariyildiz/cc6824e6f4ef168808cc685e4bff4c75.js"></script>

When I run the code on Jupyter notebook instance I can see the inserts from the interface.
It takes 3-4 minutes to get all of it by using the code above.

## 3. Parsing Email Data & Editing Fields

* I use Python's email module to parse headers.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/csariyildiz/05dd402d6deb28d5caf1ae3595794547.js"></script>

### Editing Fields

* We dont need unparsed "message" field since we have the "body" field. I delete it using this MongoDB query.

db.enronmails.updateMany({},{$unset: {message:""}})

* I change the name of filename field to directory. 

db.enronmails.updateMany({},{$rename: {"file":"directory"}})

## 4. Exporting A Parsed Data

Now I export to new parsed data to use it as a resource for later work. Also take it as a backup.



